---
title: "Wayland and Streaming"
description: "The dark side of Linux"
date: "2021-01-17 12:00:00+0200"
slug: "wayland-streaming"
---

Today I was trying to stream some gamplay for my friends from Linux, especifically,
from an Arch install on Gnome + Wayland. I ended up throwing too many hours
trying to compile OBS.

So I tried to stream at 60 FPS, but no matter what, the streaming/recording was skipping frames.

I assume it could be because of the damn Wayland/Xwayland thing, so I relogin in the X session, try
it and it works nicely. Because of this, I assume this is a Xorg issue and report it.

Now, here comes the shitshow. Xorg maintainer points that the issue comes from OBS because they should
patch it to work nicely with XWayland (And provides links to Xorg issues that have already been resolved for this)

But OBS maintainers say that they don't think that it's correct for them to make fixes for XWayland, since they only
support Xorg sessions, and the compatibility with Wayland using Xwayland should handle the rest.

Because of this I ended up compiling a fork from the always amazing developer Georges Stavracas. But this it took
time, effort and experiments to get obs compiled in a custom location with the obs-xdg-portal...

Since I would prefer not to use flatpaks for now, getting a native git version working was a pain in the ass, mostly
because I wanted to install it on a custom location under $HOME, but then I needed to compile obs-xdg-portal using libs
installed on a custom location and lots of times I ended up with OBS compiled and running but with the Screencasting not working...

If you are in this case and don't want to spend hours fixing this, I would rather recommend using the Flathub beta version of OBS.

What do you think we will get first?

OBS with native Wayland support or Steam Proton games running natively under Wayland?